|hSACRED & PROFANE SPACES|pHoly places are those areas that are closer to the God’s Realm, where the Middle Realm is weaker. There the faithful can almost feel the the Divines walking around.|lIn a sacred space dedicated to a certain Divine, Invocation Die are 1 size smaller, down to a d2. It also fills the devoted with a sense of purpose, temporarily increasing their Devotion dice size by 1 for Conflicts and, if defending the space, they add it to the dice pool for free with every escalation.|pThere are also those areas that are abhorrent to the gods. Desecrated altars, dwarven holds, and other spaces the Divine presence is absent.|lThese Profane spaces net 1 dice larger for each Invocation Die spent for the Divine space is Profane to. The unanointed are completely unable to spend invoke Miracles.|cTaking an Oath (special) |pNot a sacrifice or holy day parse, Taking an Oath is essentially getting Favor on loan from the Divines for the promise that, if you get out the bad situation you're in, you'll make a huge sacrifice to them soon after. By Taking an Oath, you gain a die worth of Favor for every 20% of treasure you gain from the adventure you promise to the Divine, should you survive. |pThis die is equal to the highest Devotion die related to the Divine you're petitioning if you're Anointed to them. The Unanointed must also promise to become Anointed in addition to the cash and goods, in which case they gain a d8! worth of Favor. This Favor can put you over your max but must be spent on a Miracle immediately.|pThe Divines are extremely litigious. If you don't fulfill your oath in 1 month + 1 for every Honor Category higher than Average Honor you're in, they will seek vengeance. You may no longer gain any Favor with any Divine that shares a pantheon with the one you're in and what you do have will decay, causing you to lose 1 Favor per day. Priests of the Divine will also condemn you as an oath breaker, a very serious accusation, causing you to drop 1 Honor Category per month and preventing you from increasing your Honor. Should you fall into Dishonor, you gain the Excommunicated Flaw.