|sATHLETICS SKILL SUITE|lThis suite covers all things that require physical prowess and, to a lesser extent, pure manual dexterity.|bACROBATICS |pThis covers your characters ability to stretch their body, do flips, and turn cartwheels. This allows the character to vault fences without slowing down or roll to avoid falling damage.|pReference the Check to Not Slow Down table to calculate the base Difficulty to, well, not slow down when you encounter an obstacle.|lTo reduce falling damage, remove 10 ft from the effective fall distance for every soft success you get.|bCLIMBING |pThis skill covers climbing and repelling up and down walls of various heights and textures.|pDifficulty should be based on height, with about every 40 ft increasing the difficulty by 1 dice size. |lTextures should also play a major factor in not just how tough the check is but also how many Checks need to be made for a given wall.|lSo, if there’s a wall, where the base is stone at a 45% slant for 20 ft, then it moves to close knit stones for another 40 ft, and then finally to a wood overhang for just 5 ft, and then to a wooden wall for 10 ft, there would be 4 Climbing checks in this order: +d4!, +d10! (d8! for base but because it’s 40 ft, it gets bumped up 1), d10!, and +0.|bENDURANCE |pThrough training, a character can push his body past the limits of his base physical |lability. The Rank of this Skill is the base number of seconds between taking damage while Running or Sprinting, although specifics are given in the Actions section of Chapter: 9 Combat.|bESCAPE ARTIST |pThis allows the character to escape bonds and restrictions and is always rolled opposed, either against the Rope Use skill of the person who tied them or against the quality of the manacles or binds the person was put in.|lThe character can make a straight +0 Check, not to break the bounds or get free, but to instead move his body to an advantageous position.|bJUMPING |pWhen you need to cover a distance without touching the ground, jump.|pTypically, a character can jump 16 inches vertically or 5 ft horizontally without a Check, however, if they wish to go further, they’ll need to roll.|pEach soft success adds 2 inches to the vertical jump and 6 inches to the horizontally. Starting at a run doubles this.|lSmall creatures half these numbers while Large creatures double them.|bSPORT (specific) |pThis covers the actual playing of a specific sport as well as an in-depth knowledge of the game’s rules as well as famous players and techniques.|lIf it becomes a plot point, the GM should feel free to make this skill apply to only certain positions, like pitching or shortstop but this a fantasy roleplaying game so I doubt that’ll happen.|bMOVE SILENTLY |pWhen you want to move silently, you’ll want to use this skill. This involves being able to feel your way along and compensate for creaks.|lThis is always an opposed check vs any potential listener’s Listening, with a failure indicating that the listener has heard something suspicious, though the person attempting Move Silently may not be aware that they were detected.|lMoving at speeds greater than a Crawl or Strolling speed is considered Multitasking. Refer to the following table for what to roll.|bSWIMMING |pThis skill allows a character to not drown in water.|lThe Difficulty of the check is determined by the water (or other liquid, I don’t judge) you’re attempting to swim in, though simply trying to float on your back and letting the current take you gives you a +d8! to your roll, though it is risky because you could get pulled into an aquifer or get pulled over a waterfall but that’s the chance you take.|sLORE SKILL SUITE|lThis suite covers general knowledge, which is mostly academic in nature. Most of it is pretty heavy stuff but the basics are second nature or stuff that’s been picked up here and there.|bADMINISTRATION |pWhile they’ll never inspire the awe or respect that other leaders do, people who oversee the day to day functions of an organization keep the lights on so that others can make the speeches.|pAdministrators can make a Check at +0 to gain a clue about an item the party might need on their adventure, or one to retroactively remember that they did buy an item back at the market for just such an occasion.|lEach of these checks they make increases the difficulty of the next one by 1 step.|bHISTORY |pEveryone knows certain large events, but few can tie those events into an overarching narrative and understand their effects on later events.|lThe History skill allows a character to not just recall events but also to link them to the present day, to certain traditions and rituals of a culture, or the behavior of certain members of a culture, giving insight on how to proceed.|bLANGUAGE (specific) |pA character receives this skill for free in their native tongue with a Rank equal to half their Int (rounded up) and it allows them to speak and be understood by others with skill in that language.|pChecks are only made when timing is critical, such as communication in a battle, or when understanding is key, such as when debating foreign policy.|pIf one of the characters is in a Confrontation with another in a tongue that’s not their native one, that person can only bring in as many dice per round as he has Ranks in that Language.|pAdditionally, when two native speakers are in a Confrontation, the one with the higher Language Rank gains an additional dice (see Applicable Skills in Chapter 8: Confrontation ). In case of tie, nothing happens.|lThe Lore Skill Suite can’t be used in place of a Language Check for tongues you don’t know unless you have the Language Skill in a related Language. Using a real-world example, someone with the Language (Swedish) Advanced Skill couldn’t use the Lore Skill Suite to understand a person with Language (French) but could use it when talking to someone with Language (Norwegian) or Language (Danish).|bLAW (culture) |pThis skill covers the intricacies of the legal system, including landmark rulings and common punishments for common crimes. A character can make their case or find loopholes to exploit the legal system.|lA character’s Lore skill can only be used to substitute for their native culture but not others’. If the character does wish to branch out, his mastery of Law for that new culture starts at 0, as he must learn everything from the ground up. Diving more into his own culture’s laws (buying this Advanced Skill for his culture) uses the Lore skill as base, as per usual.|bLITERACY (Alphabet) |pUnlike other skills, this skill can’t be attempted unless you’ve specifically bought this Advanced Skill and its Rank starts at 0. That’s right; every character starts illiterate.|pThis skill allows a character to read and write in a language’s alphabet, giving them the power to pen books and poems, or passive aggressive notes.|pThis skill can be taken multiple times, each instance representing mastery of a new writing system. The scribe can then use that alphabet to pen any language they know, in the same way that we could use the Latin Alphabet to pen Arabic or the Korean Alphabet to write English.|lTo decipher a text, the person needs to know both the alphabet it's written in and the language it's using, which most of the time won't matter but can be used as a cheap way to do a cypher in a pinch.|bMATHEMATICS |pWhile this may seem like just a skill that allows you to be able to juggle figures and add totals and calculate the area of a circle like a huge nerd, mathematics has a more practical use: correctly guessing distances.|lWhile you can try to eyeball how far away something is, a Mathematics Check vs +0 allows you to do rough calculations, giving you the ability to know exactly what penalty you’re going to get for using a ranged weapon or whose going to be affected by the Area of Effect of a spell you’re going to cast.|bMEDICINE |pWith proper treatment and nursing, a wound that would lay you out for weeks, may only keep you down for a couple of days. This skill involves the knowledge of long-term care, when bandages should be changed, which poultices will have the greatest effect, and what minor surgeries need to be performed.|pA character with this skill can make a Check for a wounded person, adding the Severity of his largest Wound to the opposing roll.|pSo, if a person has a 5, 3, and 8 Severity Wound, he can make a Medicine Check vs d20+8. |pSuccess means that the person can take 1 day off the healing time for every Wound every time it drops a Severity.|lSo, a success against a 5 Severity Wound means that it was treated properly and takes 10 days to completely heal ( 4 + 3 + 2 + 1 + 0 ) instead of the normal 15.|lYou may also increase the Difficulty modifier by half again as much - if you succeed, you take 2 days off per Severity. So, if you're against a d20!+9, you can make it a d20!+14 ( 9 + ( 9 / 2 ) ) for that bonus.|lAdditionally, when resisting Poison, Toxin, or Diseases, you can add your Medicine Rank, rounded up, to each round of the Confrontation.|bMONSTER CRAFT |pThis Advanced Skill is under both the Lore and Survival Skill Suite but still counts as 1 skill, so you don’t have to buy it twice - they share their Rank. It simply represents the different ways that each Skill Suite approaches the craft.|pMonster Craft gives you insight into the creatures that roam the Middle Realm. Simply put, each soft success gives you a (truthful) answer to a question.|lDifficulty is based on how common the monster is. Common is +0, uncommon +d6!, rare is d12!, and legendary is +d20!.|bRELIGION (cult) |pThis skill acquaints the character with a knowledge of cults, their common Covenants and Miracles, as well as their hierarchies, means of advancement, and important members.|pIt also allows a character to gain a knowledge of their rituals and sacrifices, as well as the taboos of their clergy and how to appease their heavenly messengers and avenging angels.|pThe Religion Skill is taken for a single Covenant, but can be purchased independently for different Covenants.|lA character adds the tens digit of this skill to their chance of gaining Favor when making sacrifices to the god of that cult.|bWORLD CRAFT |pThis area of study covers the topography of the Middle Realm. It’s forests and rock formations and biomes. It helps predict whether or not it’s going to rain or whether the next summer is going to be a hot one.|lPredicting what’s coming in the next hour is a Check vs +0, with the difficulty increasing by 1 dice size for each time you double the prediction window. So, detecting the weather in the next 2 hours is vs +d4!, while doing so in the next 16 hours is vs +d10!.|sSTREETWISE SKILL SUITE|lThis suite covers knowledge that a character might pick on the street or in the school of hard knocks. While Lore is book smart, Streetwise is street smart.|bCURRENT AFFAIRS |pA character with this skill is well informed about the day to day affairs of regional powers and men and women of importance, their dealings and alliances, as well as their hatreds. He can pick out celebrities and know how and why someone got rich and famous. |lThey can also use this skill to guess the Honor category of someone by watching how people react to them and letting them know about certain NPCs' Reputations.|bDECEPTION |pThis covers all sorts of deception, where you want the person to believe the opposite of the truth, or, to put it simply, when you want to lie to them.|pThe level of difficulty to pull off a lie is based on how much of what you’re saying isn’t the truth, strictly speaking. This is always opposed by either the other character’s Deception or Perception but only if the character has reason to suspect that you’re lying to them.|lEven if you succeed, this isn’t a permanent way of changing their mind. New evidence presented to that person may cause them to rethink their opinion on what you tried to sell them so be careful about what falsehoods you spin.|bFORGERY |pMostly commonly used for creating fake currency, forgery is a skill that allows a character to reproduce something effectively and fool others. This skill acquaints the character with common forging techniques and knowledge with what possible agents will be looking for.|pThe forger must also have the appropriate corresponding Craft or Trade skill, so he can’t forge coins if he doesn’t have the Metalworking skill, though that’s within reason: a character forging an official passport with one at hand doesn’t need to have Literacy as he can just copy the letters, though he may also need to have Artistry (wood cutting) to create the heraldry on it, but someone trying to forge an official declaration from scratch does need to have the Literacy skill in that language plus Artistry (wood cutting).|lForgery is opposed by Perception, the applicable skill, or Forgery but only if the character looking has reason to suspect there’s something else. A lazy guard probably won’t check your passport too closely right before lunch, but a particularly astute one who's on the lookout for a promotion will.|bGAMBLING/GAMING |lThis skill doesn’t give the character a gift for winning games, just that he knows the rules and knows the odds, which could in turn lead to him winning the game.|bINTUITION |pThe ability to understand people and get where they're coming from can help you figure out what will and won't work with them better. |pA Check vs +0 allows the character to get a feel for how open a person would be to a Confrontation over something or what would be definite deal breakers for them. It doesn't reveal any of their Characteristics or their strengths as it's more of gut feeling than anything.|pEach check on the same person increases the Difficulty by 1 dice size. |pThey can also use it to confirm their theories about what Characteristics a character has. The player needs to make a reasonable guess about the Characteristic first - so players who’re simply throwing out guesses automatically fail. |lThis is done at a Check vs +0 to start with but increases by 1 for every dice size per guess, whether the character succeeded at the last ones or not.|bLISTENING While Perception handles the other senses, Listening has to deal with your character’s auditory senses. This goes beyond simply hearing something: listening allows the character to know when an otherwise innocuous noise is actually something to pay attention to though it might not always be apparent why at first.|bLOCK PICKING |pIt takes a lot more know-how then you might think to pick a lock. |lThe amount of time it takes to pick any lock is based on your skill level and the quality of the lock. Subtract the Time Off * their soft successes from the Base Time.|bPERCEPTION |pThis covers four of the five senses that a character has: sight, touch, taste, and smell. Technically, your character is always receiving inputs from these senses but Perception helps filter out the unimportant ones. Can he detect if there are orcs in the nearby bush? Can she taste the hidden poison in her drink before she swallows? These are all Perception checks|lLike Listening, sometimes Perception will help the character notice something that may be important, even if it’s not obvious why it’s grabbing your attention.|bSLEIGHT of HAND |lThis skill covers all things that require you to do quick, delicate movements with your fingers. This may be slipping a card up your sleeve, picking a pocket, or doing cat’s cradle while bored.|sSURVIVAL SKILL SUITE|lThis suite covers everything that a character might need to survive in the wild; Knowledge of what plants to eat and the skills to hunt and breed animals.|bBOTANY |pThis gives a knowledge of what the herbs used in cooking, alchemy, and medicine look like in their natural environment and it allows you to identify their common uses. It also helps find food in the wilderness.|pIf halving their overland travel speed, a person with Botany can make a Check every travel period: if they succeed, they can consider themselves 1 step up on the Long-Term Exhaustion table. So, if they had nothing, they could consider themselves Rationing.|pIf they choose to stay put, a success nets them 2 steps up.|p4 or more soft successes results in doubling their output, meaning they possibly found themselves enough food for the next day.|lMostly, this is used for detecting poisonous plants, which is Check vs +d4! but is a common Helper Skill for both Medicine and Cooking/Baking.|bFIRE BUILDING |pAgainst the cold, lonely nights out in the wild, there is only the fertility symbols you carve for yourself and the roar of the fire. This skill allows you to build one of those things: the fire.|lUnder normal conditions, it takes about 30 minutes and a Check vs +0 to set up and light a fire, assuming you don’t have to go far out of your way to find the wood.|bFIRST AID |pThis gives the character a crude understanding of battlefield medicine: making splints and staunching wounds.|pA character with this skill can make a Check for a person wounded in that last 30 minutes, adding the Severity of any Wounds that he's treating to the opposing roll. |pSo, if a person has a 5, 3, and 8 Severity Wound, he can make a First Aid Check vs d20+16 or he can choose not to treat the 8 Severity Wound and make a vs d20!+8. Success means that the person can take 1 level of Severity off those Wounds. So a 5 Severity Wound drops immediately to a 4 Severity Wound. You cannot go back and do a Check for a Wound that you skipped.|pYou have 30 minutes to perform First Aid Checks for a person, with each Wound taking 3 minutes, if applicable. |lYou may also increase the Difficulty modifier by half again as much - if you succeed, you hit 2 points of damage. So, if you're against a d20!+9, you can make it a d20!+14 ( 9 + ( 9 / 2 ) ) to heal 2 points of damage.|bHANDLE ANIMAL (specific) |pThis skill deals with the handling and care of a specific animal, from birth to the slaughterhouse. It also deals with training and common illnesses to make sure the stock is healthy and virile.|pWhile most Checks are handled like normal knowledge Checks or on a case-by-case basis (such as calming down your animal during a storm), using a question and answer style, this Skill is also used for training, with the base number of tricks you can teach an animal equal to their Int (note that carrying things and handling a bridle are two different tricks). |pThe animal needs to have both the basic temperament and physical ability to learn a trick (no sheep becoming pack animals and no dogs learning to pick locks). The GM may increase or decrease this for particularly smart/dumb and obedient/obstinate animals.|lAfter a month of training, a roll is made vs +0. If successfully, the animal learned the trick. If not, another Check can be made in a month, although every failure increases the difficulty to learn that trick by 1 dice size.|lThe base price of this skill is calculated towards domesticated animals. If the player wishes to learn how to deal with wild animals, this skill costs thrice as much to purchase.|bHIDING |lThis allows a character to make the most of a situation or environment to cloak themselves against prying eyes. This is always opposed by Perception, with the difficulty determined by the area. Characters can also use this to instantly get an idea of how well they can hide in the given space.|bMONSTER CRAFT |lThis skill is the same as the Monster Craft under the Lore Skill Suite. Look there for details on it.|bNAVIGATION |pEither using the stars or the position of the moons and sun, this character can track their way even through the most untamed wilderness without getting lost. It also allows them to tell the time.|lWithout proper equipment, a character can only give rough estimations of where they are, anchored on larger geographic features (like mountains or rivers but not towns or roads) to the nearest 10 miles.|bSCAVENGING |pThere’s a gift in high speed appraisal. This is often used by those picking over battlefields for anything they could sell, but it’s also found a niche with adventurers who use it to find food and sustenance while traveling away from civilization.|pA Check vs +0 tells a character which of two things considered is worth more. This can’t be used for coinage, but can be any other type of good. It also gives the character an idea of whether broken equipment can be reasonably salvaged.|lThis doesn’t give even a ballpark of what anything is worth but it only takes a few seconds of consideration.|lIf using this Skill to scavenge for food, use the rules presented in the Botany section, however, two or more Complications results in you eating something poisonous.|bSNARING |pThis teaches the character how to properly create and place snares to trap smaller wildlife. It also gives some cursory knowledge on the best places to put them.|lSnares have a chance of giving you food once a week, although you’ll only actually roll when you check them. Every soft success you get gives you half a day’s worth of food.|bHUNTING |pMost of the time, you’re not going to down your query in one go, and so the hunt is on as your watch for subtle signs of their passing. While this skill was originally used to hunt wildlife, it has been repurposed by wardens and bounty hunters trying to capture the most dangerous game.|lThe Hunting Skill can be used to track your prey, get a sense of their movements, and predict where they’re going. It can also give insight into common and uncommon natural creatures.|pIf you’re using it for food, hunting is a boom or bust strategy: at the end of each full day you spend hunting, roll a Check.|lFor each soft success you gain 2 days’ worth of food, but either way, you gain 1 damage from exhaustion and possibly more if you suffer a Complication.|bUSE ROPE |pCovering all kinds of knots and bindings, the Use Rope skill is pretty self-explanatory, though it should be noted that you can also use this skill to get a sense of the tensile strength of a rope or how much you’re going to need for a certain job.|lTo keep your players on their toes, I suggest you make the check, not when they tie the knot, but when it’s tested.|sTACTIC SKILL SUITE|lCombat isn’t just about raw physical power, but more about how it’s directed and used. This Skill Suite deals with logistics and making the most out of what you have.|bCOMBAT STYLE (style) |pBy studying the best tactics and how to fight in certain circumstances, a warrior can take advantage of his surroundings and combat styles emerge. Combat Styles can be anything but involved in parts: a situation and a metric. |pThis situation is when the Combat Style is most effective. For instance, it can be “in the forest”, “fighting on rooftops”, “being outnumbered”, “being in a duel”, “fighting while prone”, etc.. Really anything (as long as your GM approves). |pThe second part of the Combat Style is the metric applied to. This can be anything you could normally specialize in. |lBoth the situation and metric are selected at the time of purchase and cannot be changed.|pIf the situation is applicable, the character receives a +1 to that metric for every 2 Ranks of that skill he’s obtained.|pSo a character with the Combat Skill (unarmed fighting, attack) at 5 who gets into a tavern brawl gets a +2 to attack as long as he doesn’t draw his weapon and simply uses fisticuffs.|lHaving a high Rank in Tactics doesn't automatically give you Combat Style bonuses under all circumstances and buying this skill for the first time starts it off at Rank 0, instead of the Tactic Suite's Rank.|bDISTRACTION |pMore than simply yelling “hey, look” at someone, the art of distraction is the art of holding people’s attention.|lThe amount of time that someone is delayed is based on the Difficulty of the Check and how bent on their current activity they are.|pOn a success, the person (or persons) is distracted for the amount of time according to the Difficulty * half the number of soft successes, rounded up.|lThis isn’t magical: an obvious threat to their person will cause the person to focus in.|pThis skill is less effective when the person knows they’re in immediate danger. In this case, as long as they’re not actively engaged in melee with someone (in which case it’s an instant fail under most circumstances), the person is distracted for seconds, instead of minutes. |lEach successive Check’s Difficulty gets increased by 2 dice sizes in these cases.|bLEADERSHIP |pThe difference between a leader and an administrator is that the latter gets stuff done and the former gets others to get stuff done but hooking into what they believe and how they view themselves.|pAssuming you have a willing audience, you may make a Leadership Skill Check vs +0 pointed at a Characteristic you think the person or group might have. |pIf you succeed the Check and they have the Characteristic you’re looking for (or close enough - you don’t have to be exact), you increase their Panic threshold by 1 step for the next d4! hours. Gaining 4 or more soft success increases it by 2 steps.|lYou can increase the number of Characteristics you’re aiming for by increasing the Difficulty dice size of the Check by a similar number.|bQUARTER MASTERING |lThere’s an art to packing and making sure that everyone is well fed and prepared. If the quartermaster is using a personal container of any kind, he adds 2S for each Rank he has in this Skill. Otherwise, he adds 1S per Rank. This also applies to any person he packs for.|bRALLY |pWhen manure hits the windmill, no speeches or grand narratives will keep a person from bolting. Only the cold will of a competent commander can keep a battle from becoming a route. |lA captain who successfully makes a Check vs +) for someone who is currently over their Stress Threshold, heals that person a number of Stress equal to 3 * his number of soft successes. This is opposed by the enemy captain, if applicable, and each Check against the same target increases the Difficulty by 1 dice size, regardless of whether it was successful or not.|bRECRUITING |pKnowing where to find the right person is a crucial skill for any long-term expedition. A character with this skill can find a random person willing to hire on with a Check vs +0 in 2d6! days.|pNow, finding specialists or someone with a certain skill is another matter. Every additional criteria increases the Difficulty by 1 dice size.|pWhere you’re looking also makes a difference, as well.|lThis doesn’t guarantee that the person found will take the job or doesn’t have some serious issues, like a crippling fear of dogs: it only guarantees that they have the skills you’re looking for and that they’re somewhat interested in being hired on. Pay and comfort make a lot of difference to a prospective hire.|bRIDING |pThis skill teaches a character how to maintain their stability while on horseback and makes them capable of feats of equine prowess.|lThe bonuses for this Skill are varied and many with the specifics spelled out in Chapter 9: Combat under the Mounted Combat section so they won't be listed here. Seriously, go check it out.|bSIGNALLING |pThis is the knowledge of how to communicate over long distances, either using semaphore, smoke signals, signal lamps, or horn blowing.|pWhen using this means of communication, each side rolls a Check based on how complicated the message is and how quickly they need to send it. |lSignaling is an ad hoc language with no grammatical rules or complicated tenses and so even at the best of times, only simple messages can be sent.|bWARFARE |pThe Warfare skill hands directing troops on the battlefield, weighing options, and devising plans on the fly. |pThose with this skill can roll it to temporarily pause combat to ask one question and receive one answer from a specific member of the party, or to simply tell them something. On top of this, you can also use this, out of combat, to confer with players who’re characters are not present in the scene.|pChecks start at +0 Difficulty but increase by 1 dice size each time they’ve been rolled that combat.|lWarfare also has additional benefits and uses that will be outlined in Crowns of Fire, the kingdom management and mass combat supplement for Bonfire.|sTRADES SKILL SUITE|lThis suite covers the crafting and creating skills. While there are a wide array and breadth of professions, this list is pared down to those areas of knowledge where the common man and the adventurer overlap in their needs.|bAPPRAISAL (specific) |pIt’s wise to know what something is worth before selling and buying it. This skill handles that and is taken for a specific type of good, such as books & scrolls, livestock, jewelry, arms & armor, and so on.|pIf a character has the appropriate skill covering the item he’s looking to sell/purchase, a Check will tell them what kind of deal they're getting on the item - how much they’re being ripped off or how much of a steal it actually is.|lAdditionally, the character should get a bonus if he has any skill that’s applicable to the thing he’s purchasing.|bARTICULATION |pYou may think that the truth is powerful enough to carry your argument but you can be beat out by a master of deception. Articulation is the skill of rhetoric and formulating the truth in such a way that makes it the most convincing.|pThe level of Difficulty to convince someone is how much evidence you can supply to back up your arguments. This is opposed by Deception or Articulation but only if someone is actively trying to deceive or convince the same person as you.|lNote that the Difficulty of their Deception Check may add bonus dice to your Articulation Check.|lEven if you succeed, this isn’t a permanent way of changing a person’s mind. Others may lie more effectively than you can tell the truth and that may cause them to rethink their opinion on what you tried to sell them.|bARTISTRY (specific) |lWhile some may not find the Fine Arts a worthy way to spend time, others may disagree. Artistry covers all artistic endeavors, including painting, sculpture, embroidery and anything else that is done for art’s sake.|bCOOKING/BAKING |pOn the road, a hot meal can count for a lot. A character who has a hot meal gains 1 Relaxation for every soft success the cook had on their Check.|pOn top of this, a character can prepare otherwise unpalatable or poisonous food in such a way as to make the most of it, though it is a Check vs d12! to do so.|lUnless the character is trying to prepare a feast worthy of His Imperial Majesty, basic daily cooking only requires a Check vs +0.|bCRAFT (specific) |lThis skill covers any skill that makes something that isn’t noted here, such as carpentry, tailoring, basket weaving, pottery, etc.. The GM may adjust the price for a particularly difficult to master study.|bLEATHERWORKING |lFrom the moment it leaves the beast to the moment the final touches are finished, leatherworking handles the process of making and crafting works from the hides of animals, including skinning and tanning.|bMAINTENANCE |pThe skill of tinkers and adventurers, this gives the person a general knowledge of easy and ad hoc fixes that can be done on the fly. |pA successful Check lowers the Wear on the item by 1. The level of difficulty in repairing something is equal to the Wear on the item, rounded up to the nearest dice size.|lSo repairing a spear with 1 Wear is a d4!, while repairing one with a 5 Wear is a d6!.|lAnother Check can't be made until the item gains more Wear.|bMETALWORKING |lThis covers the process of changing crude ore into a beautiful weapon, armor, or decorative piece. It also covers the construction and repair of more mundane things, like plows, but if you’re picking this skill up, I doubt you’re doing it to corner the farmer’s market.|bMUSICIAN (specific) |pThis covers the mastery of specific instruments, including singing. At the end of the day, the dulcet tones of a neatly played mandolin can ease the ache of a long day. |pA character who hears someone play an instrument gains 1 Relaxation for every soft success the player had on his Check. This doesn’t stack with others playing, however, you will take the highest roll and use that to determine Relaxation. It also does no good if you’re in a stressful situation, like being hunted.|lUnless the character is trying to serenade a queen, basic daily ditties only require a Check vs +0.|bPERFORMANCE |pThis skill covers everything from making your case before a court or a stirring speech before charging into battle. |pOn a success, anyone listening gains a temporary Devotion to what the performer wants: whether that’s themselves or an organization or a case. If the Devotion already exists, the size is temporarily increased. |lThe Devotions strength is equal to the number of soft successes the performer had.|sWEIRDCRAFT SKILL SUITE|pThe science of the Weird is an oft-studied but little understood branch of knowledge that requires a deep knowledge of the nature of the Painted World.|lWith this Skill Suite, someone can identify a spell, point out needed regents and processes for ritual shapings, detect if something is touched by the Weird and what its properties are, or even detect if a spell has been cast in an area, and have a chance of finding out what it was.|bALL ADVANCED WEIRDCRAFT SKILLS |pUnlike other Advanced Skilled, the Weirdcraft Advanced Skills pretty much work the same and so don't need their own section.|lThe first bonus that having an Advanced Weirdcraft Skill gives you is that it gives you further insight into a particular Weird Tradition, allowing you to detect it better. For more information on what each Tradition specializes in, head over to Chapter 11: The Weird.|pThe other thing it does is allow you to shape cantrip versions of spells from that Tradition, regardless of Archetype. The ability to shape is inherit in all living things though it takes decades of practice, a strong family bloodline, and/or a natural gift to do what Weird-Adept Archetypes do, a form of practical "folkweird" is often passed down as part of the tools of the trade.|pThis doesn't, and will never, allow someone to shape the full version of a spell but it can give them a boost or an edge. The specific details should be left up to the GM and player but they should always be appropriate to the Tradition and never be more powerful than a spell that does the same thing. Most commonly this will mean it will get used as a Helper Skill.|lShaping a cantrip is still shaping and is stressful and so that anytime any of these Skills are used to shape, the shaper gets 2d6! Stress.