ADDLE,Alteration,Chaos,Mysticism,2,None,20 Seconds,25 ft,All sentient beings in the area temporarily reduce their Stress by X * 5, and trauma checks are made on X smaller dice.,,All creatures in the area of effect get a minus -X to attack and defense; a +X to initiative; and all Skill Checks are considered X Difficulty harder.,,ALARM,Mysticism,1,None,3 Hours,Trigger 100 ft and Alarm 100 ft. These are modified separately.,When the defined enter the area of effect it triggers the alarm. The default definition is “Anything Humanoid”. X being the number of specific definitions. If two definitions contradict one another they are both cancelled out. For example, “Anything Orcish” counts as 1, “Anything that’s an orc” counts as 2, and “Anything Orish or Elvish” counts as 2 as well.,,A loud magical bell tolls causing X Stress to those in the alarm area of effect.,,ANCESTRAL LORE,Conjuration,Mysticism,1,Fire, Caster’s Blood,X Skill Check or 6 Hours, whichever comes first.,15 ft,By channeling the link in your blood, you can summon an ancestor spirit to temporarily endow you with some of their knowledge. One random person in the Area of Effect decreases X number of Int, Wis, or Char based skill checks by 1 difficulty.,,For the duration of the spell a random person (the same person of the positive effect if applicable) has an ancestral spirit following them around. This is obvious to anyone seeing the target. This prevents the character from effectively sneaking (as the ghost will make no effort to hide itself) and it keep the person it's haunting up at night with nightmarish visions of it's past life - preventing the person from healing Wounds or Stress.,Additionally, the spirit enters into a conflict with the target with Xd12 characteristic dice to try and persuade the target to visit their burial site.,,ANTI-SENSORY BATH,Illusion,4,None,15 seconds,5 ft,All creatures in the Area of Effect fall into a bliss-like state gaining 10 * X temporary “Stress” that can be used towards any mental Skill Check, even if you don’t Stress about it prior.,,All creatures in the area of effect become cursed with temporary blindness, muteness, or deafness. Increasing Magnitude will affect another sense.,,ANIMATE CORPSE,Animancy,4,Dead bodies.,4 Hour,30 feet,Animates, or assert control over, X number of corpses of a used-to-be sentient beings within the Area of Effect into mindless undead. To gain control over already raised undead they need to both be unintelligent and uncontrolled by another. This undead doesn’t think for itself and can only follow simple commands like “Stand here and attack anyone that comes through”. It can’t speak or even defend itself properly (rolling attacks and defenses on d12!s and being unable to imploy Combat Tactics or gain any bonus from Flanking) and has no survival instincts.,,Severs control over X number of random undead in the given Area of Effect and causes them to go berserk,,ARCANE VORTEX,Alteration,Order,3,None,30 Seconds,50 ft,All spells that have targets inside the Area of Effect or have their Area of Effects overlap with the Spell Vortex are attracted to the center or edges of this spell by the most direct route. The direction is dictated by the caster and can be changed X number of times. All spells must move in the same direction. For Arcane Vortexes that are Walls and Ray, the spells move to either end.,,Any spells cast within the Area of Effect become Spheres with a speed of X ft / seconds If the caster is inside the Area of Effect of the Vortex, she has no control over the spell movement direction,,AUGER SECRET,Mysticism,2,Verbal, Somatic,30 Seconds,15 ft,This finds anything that is purposely hidden from others, including hidden doors or a love letter sequestered away, within the Area of Effect.,The caster doesn’t automatically know what is hidden; they only know it’s exact location and general area the item takes up. The caster is also unaware if the object is moved but instantly knows the object if they touch it, even if it has.,,Creates a zone of magical darkness by decreasing the illumination of the area by X steps in the Area of Effect (see Misc Rules).,AURA of INNOCENCE,,ORDERS Illusion | Mysticism,5,None,10 Seconds,5 ft,Anyone within the Area of Effect of this spell is affected by a mental glamour causing them to assume the best of the person at the center of the spell, even if he’s standing over the fresh corpse of their mother with the bloody knife in his hand.,,The person at the center of the spell believes they are innocent and feels no urgent need to leave. They are also inclined to believe in the innocence of everyone else around.,,BANISH,Conjuration,Order,5,None,10 Seconds,60 ft,Within the Area of Effect an illusory image of any banished creatures appears in the position they were banished from and will return to.,,X number of random creatures in the area of effect are temporarily banished to another plane of existence.,Summoned creatures are permanently banished.,,BAR PORTAL,Alteration,1,None,1 Hour,50 ft,This spell locks and seals any door or latch in the Area of Effect. Anyone trying to bust through needs to make a Strength check vs d20! + ( X * 3 ) to successfully break down the door.,,This spell also prevents any sort of teleportation, summoning, or banishing in the Area of Effect for the Duration of the spell. This affects all casters (including the origin of this spell).,,BEASTIAL SIGHT,Invocation,Mysticism,3,None,10 minutes,15,Bestows everyone in area of effect one type of special vision. This covers dark vision, infrared vision, 360 vision, and aquatic vision.,,Reduces range of vision of everyone within the Area of Effect to 30 ft - X * 5 ft,,BIND ELEMENTAL HEART,Elemental,Conjuration,3,None,30 Seconds,20 ft,This spell either conjures an elemental heart from it’s realm or binds one that has gone rogue.,Once in this realm, the elemental heart robes itself in nearby sympathetic elements, giving a form where it can then move. Without it’s dead kin around, the heart becomes inert and defenseless. So, while there are Order and Chaos Elementals, neither of those two things have a physical manifestation in the Middle Realm and so they simply lay there.,This spell conjures an elemental with a Weird of Xd4. The higher the Weird, the more powerful the elemental. Stats for elementals are found in the Bestiary.,Elementals are ‘liquid’ and can shift and change their form. Their Weird can be invested to increase their baseline stats and special abilities. How much this costs is determined by the type of heart summoned. Weird can assigned at the time of summoning but also rearranged after, though this takes 1 second per point shift,A summoned elemental heart appears in a random location, determined by d12 for direction (12 being where the caster is facing and 6 being directly behind him) and d20 for distance, within the Area of Effect and rolls a d12 initiative dice. During this time, the elemental is getting its barings and forming itself proper,Elementals are intelligent creatures and will struggle to overcome their bindings. Anytime you change an elemental’s command, the elemental rolls a d8! + its Weird (and the Weird of any other elementals controlled by the caster) vs d8! + caster level x 2. If it wins, the caster loses control and the elemental goes rogue, first seeking out the caster to try and kill them as quickly as possible,The caster can try cast Bind Elemental Heart again to try and regain control. If the Weird you could have summoned is greater than the rogue elemental’s Weird, you regain control... for now.,Elementals cast in specialized Area of Effects (Sphere, Ray, Wall, etc.) are forced into that shape and unless the Area of Effect is allowed to move, the elemental is rooted to the spot, only able to attack people who get within their Measure of that spot.,,This gives all elementals within the Area of Effect a +X chance to break their bindings and go berserk. Additionally, casting this spell triggers this check.,,BINDING GLYPH,Invocation,Order,2,None,1 Minute,45 ft,This binds another spell effect to a random item within the Area of Effect of the spell. The item is marked with a faintly glowing sigil that requires an Average Perception check to see if you’re not looking for it specifically.,On a condition indicated when the caster first casts the spell the bound spell goes off as if cast from the item in question.,The mage is, in effect, casting two spells at one time and needs the SP to cast both for this spell to work. After she’s done, she receives 3 levels of Fatigue, instead of just the usual 1.,,While the glyph is active, no one is able to cast that spell, this includes the caster but also any other casters in the Area of Effect.,For Runegalders, all versions of the spell are locked down. So, a glyph attuned to Elemental Affinity prevents all Degree version of that spell from being cast.,,CHARISMATIC GLAMOR,Illusion,2,None,1 Hour,25 ft,This relaxes people and puts them in an accepting mood. If a person affected by the glamor enters a Conflict, they reroll any dice that rolls less than X, maximum the max value of that dice.,Convincing someone this way is more temporary and the more dice that simply get removed from the pool, the more likely they are to go back to doing what they want in the long run.,,A glamour falls on the area, calming all and preventing them from taking hostile actions against anyone for the Duration of the spell or until someone deals damage to one enchanted, which means that once one glamored person is damaged, the spell is broken for everyone. The caster may exclude X people from it.,,COMMUNE,Elemental,Mysticism,1,None,10 Minutes,15 ft,This allows anyone within the Area of Effect to talk with an element or elemental also within the Area of Effect of the spell.,The answers are limited to what the elemental or object might know or have paid attention to, with the object revealing information about how it was interacted with (such as some vague features of the people who’ve handled it or the places it’s been) and the elemental being more helpful with more refined details but typically rough around the edges.,,This spell allows people to hear what can’t be heard normally by human ears but it harder for them to understand normal mortal language. Anyone within the Area of Effect is no longer considered native in any language they have a Skill in and additionally lowering their Rank by X when trying to urgenty communicate or when trying to bring in Characteristic Die while in a Conflict.,Those affected aren’t really aware of the change unless their effective Rank is lowered to 0; it just feels more like they simply keep forgetting words or that they can’t explain themselves properly suddenly.,,CORPSE HIDE,Animancy,4,None,20 Seconds,35 ft,By numbing the nerve endings and restricting blood flow, the caster increases the DR of everyone within the Area of Effect by X.,It also makes the targets immune to any Fatigue checks from environmental factors.,,All creatures in the area of effect are restricted X movement categories (so a Magnitude 2 Corpse Hide restricts both Sprinting and Running) and attack speed is increased by X * 2.,,CORPSE TONGUE,Animancy,2,Dead body with its tongue intact,15 Seconds,10 ft,This spell allows the caster to speak to a corpse within the Area of Effect having it answer X number of questions as truthfully as it can. Questions that last longer than the spells Duration are simply cut off.,After this, the corpse’s tongue dissolves, preventing it from answering further questions.,,For the Duration of the spell, any living creature within the Area of Effect have their tongue turned black and are unable to speak.,,DEATHWATCH,Animancy,1,None,1 Minute,15 ft,This calms the spirit, calling it back from the brink of death. All characters within the Area of Effect receive a +X to their stabilization checks when bleeding out.,,This spell also annoys the body, that begs for death. This increases the amount of Health all characters within the Area of Effect lose on a failed stabilization check by X / 2, rounded up.,,DETECT MAGIC,Mysticism,1,None,5 Minutes,35 ft,This reveals X number of magical items, glyphs, and magic users in the Area of Effect, starting at the caster and than going by what is closest to her, causing them to glow brightly.,Additionally, they’ll be able to tell if any spells were cast in the general area. Though the specifics will be unknown, they’ll be able to tell the general Order.,,Besides making a target of the magic user, the light can be hard to look at. The illumination of any item including those illuminated by magical effects are increased by X categories, starting at one step above the ambient illumination and going up to Blinding. This light goes down every X * 5 ft, so the target of a Magnitude 3 spell in Normal lighting sheds Blinding light up to 15 ft away, than drops to Bright for another 15 ft.,,DISPEL ENCHANTMENT,Chaos,Mysticism,Order,3,None,15 Seconds,20 ft,This lowers the Duration time of any spells on anyone within the Area of Effect by X / 2 units, where the units are whatever units the enchanting spell uses.,,This also affects any Positive effects and friendly spells, including Dispel Enchantment. Buy downs of the Negative side only affect one spell.,,DIVINE OBJECT,Illusion,Mysticism,1,None,30 minutes,½ mile,X people of the caster’s choosing in the area of effect gains the following ability.,This locates a random object per affected person in the Area of Effect that matches the description.,Each additional description is a layer of complexity. So, a “gold necklace” costs 2 * X, and “A gold necklace with 3 rubies” costs 3 * X.,For the Duration of the spell, the targets know the exact location of the object in relation to themselves. After it’s over, the memory remains but the inner compass has faded.,,While the item that the spell turns up may not be the exact one the person is looking for, anyone affected is convinced it is and can only be unconvinced through a Conflict. The affected gain Xd4 situational dice.,For more general things, like a blacksmith, the person will be convinced that this is the best blacksmith in the city, even if the guy in question is a total hack.,If cast without a Positive effect (or if the Positive effect would turn up no results), the person is convinced that a similar object within the Area of Effect is special and endowed with supernatural powers or the thing they were looking for.,,DOMINATE,Animancy,Conjuration,Order,3,None,20 seconds,20 ft,By means of this spell, the caster is able to link 2 random people in the Area of Effect, by linking their bodies and offering a way to allow them to do tasks they would not otherwise be able to do.,Any person affected can freely surrender control to the other.,Anyone within the Area of Effect who is not being directly dominated can jump in and enter into a Conflict with the current controller for supremacy.,While playing out this Conflict may take a while, in game terms it happens within X seconds. This is a battle of wills. The winner of the Conflict takes full control over the other dominated creature.,People who do not wish to surrender control can choose to grossly misinterpret the commands of the controller but they still have to do what they’re ordered, unless it would result in obvious death (such as jumping off a cliff or slitting their own throats). They don’t, however, have to follow the order to the best of their ability.,That being said, a person can freely surrender, allowing them to mimic more intricate movements. This allows the person to roll any physical Skill Check using the controller’s Rank for the Duration of the spell or to fighter using the controller’s masteries.,,Anyone within the Area of Effect may step in and try to become the controller, replacing one of the affected people. This usurper receives Xd6 situational dice.,This spell also causes the life forces of any creature being controlled and their controller to become linked. Whenever one takes damage, if it is enough to trigger a Trauma check, both controller and dominated make the check with the receiver receiving a + X penalty to their check.,Should one gain Stress, so does the other in a like amount with + X additional Stress.,,DOPPELGANGER,Illusion,1,None,20 seconds,35 ft,This spell creates 1dX! (rounded to the nearest dice size) phantoms of everyone within the Area of Effect. These phantoms appear within 5 ft of the person and move in sync with them, following them.,The target is in a superimposed state, being, at once, one of the phantoms and none of them. Thus, she can strike from anywhere there is a phantom,These phantoms disappear on the following condition: the target makes an aggressive action of any kind, whether that’s spell casting, shooting a bow, or striking with a weapon. Even if unsuccessful, all the phantoms disappear.,Additionally, whenever someone strikes a phantom, there is a 1/Y chance of actually hitting the real person, with Y being the number of phantoms that person has left. Should they actually hit the person, all the phantoms disappear. If the blow does land on a phantom, only that phantom disappears.,,Being in a superimposed state is not comfortable; a lot of people have trouble being in one place, let four or five. Even if they have no phantoms left (or never did), this spell leaves them with an itchy feeling for the entire Duration.,Everyone affected by this spell gains X Stress per 5 seconds that they’re affected by this spell, starting on second 1 of the spell.,,DRAW POWER,Animancy,3,None,30 seconds,15 ft,Upon casting, the caster chooses a physical ability. All creatures in the Area of Effect increase that score by X.,,All creatures in the Area of Effect decrease a random physical ability score by X. This must be a different ability than the positive effect.,,DREAMSTRIDE,Alteration,Mysticism,6,COMPONENTS,1 Hour,5 ft,All creatures in the area of effect have their spirits pushed out of their bodies as an incorporeal semi translucent form. For the first X * 10 seconds the spirit is disoriented and is unable to locate their body.,While traveling in this form, the person is almost transparent, requiring a Heroic level Perception Check to notice something off. The spirit can travel up to X * 10 miles per hour. The astral projection can’t speak or interact with the Middle Realm; simply passing through walls and objects but stopped by magical wards and living beings.,It’s recommended that you return to your body before the Duration is up. Otherwise, your spirit is automatically thrown back into your body, which is an upsetting experience, and nets you 1 Stress per mile you are away from your body.,While under the influence of this spell, the person’s body is completely helpless, with the caster being completely unaware about what’s going on with his body unless he’s killed in which case he’s trapped as spirit between worlds.,,All unconscious creatures in the area of effect begin to “sleep walk”. They will act with little thought and do each of the following in the most direct manner they can. Action priority will go as follows,First, they will aggressively defend themselves against any attacker.,Second, they will attempt to go outdoors and/or into the public.,Third, they will act on X Flaws they might have without discretion.,Fourth, they will act on X Devotions, Passions, or Traits they have.,Creatures coming out of this sleepwalk state will have no recollection of what their body did during this time. Though they will be aware of any oddities such as a change in location. They will also be aware that they had been under magical influence.,If unconscious because of sleep, creatures in this state will be awakened by taking damage, being doused with cold water, or something equivalent.,,EARTH SHIFT,Earth,Invocation,1,Solid Ground,5 seconds,20 ft,A well timed shove can cause you to go faster, quicker than you normally would. Anyone within the Area of Effect who is going the direction the wave of earth is moving can move from standing to any of the movement categories in a single second.,Additionally, they add X * 3 ft / second to their movement rate and X / 2 ft to their vertical and X ft to their horizontal jump distance.,,This spell causes a wave to pulse through the ground, pushing or pulling anyone within the Area of Effect in a direction indicated by the caster. Those being carried along by this wave may try and move to offset it but they’ll be fighting against how quickly the wave is moving (as set in the Positive effect of this spell).,This spell is also somewhat effective against structures and buildings, rules for which will be found in the Crowns of Fire mass combat supplement.,Not just moving the people back, this spell also has an uneven undulation that makes it hard for those caught in the Area of Effect to keep their footing. Lower the Defense and Attack die of those caught in the spell by X.,On top of this, those that roll a natural 1 on their Defense, fall prone.,,ELEMENTAL AFFINITY,Elemental,3,None,60 seconds,5 ft,This allows the caster to create a ‘safe’ zone within an element where a person can breathe freely. This element is selected at the time of casting and can’t be changed.,For air, it makes you completely immune to all gas attacks as well.,This safe haven doesn’t travel with you unless it specifically targets you.,,Any other element within the zone is considered ‘unsafe’, so trying to breathe air will cause you to start suffocating.,Trying to stay within the Area of Effect and ‘live’ off the substance will do 1 point of damage per 10 - X seconds, ignoring DR. This damage is instantly healed as soon as the person can breathe again. If the amount of damage is above the person’s Con, they’re delayed by the difference in seconds and Fatigued the same amount.,,ELEMENTAL DEMI-PLANE,Elemental,2,None,1 Hour,15 ft,This creates a demi-plane in the Area of Effect that empowers elemental spells aligned to it, increasing them by X Magnitude. The demi-plane’s element is stated at the time of casting and can’t be switched.,,Elemental spells of the opposite element have their Magnitude decreased by X, down to 0, when their Area of Effects overlap with the demi-plane. So, a Water spell cast in a Fire aligned demi plane have their Magnitude reduced.,,ELEMENTAL FORCE,Elemental,3,none,18 seconds,20 ft,Creatures in the zone are pushed towards the edge at a rate of X*10 ft / seconds If the creature does not resist their actions are not impeded in any other way.,,Creatures in the zone take X damage after every 5 seconds they are in the zone. This damage is not reduced by DR or /DR.,,ELEMENTAL FORM,Elemental,1,None,15 Seconds,20 ft,This changes everyone within the Area of Effect into an element of the caster’s choosing with a Weird of X / 2, gaining all its special abilities, though the raw stats of your character remain the same. This is selected at time of casting and can’t be changed for the Duration.,,All creatures in the area of effect become more vulnerable to the opposite element picked for the Positive effect, increasing the Negative effects of all spells aligned to that element by X.,,FATE WELL,Chaos,Mysticism,1,None,10 minutes,50 ft,Increases bonus to Skill Checks by X * the number of Checks failed within Duration of the spell,,Playing with the Fates is tricky business. Increase all Spell Check Difficulties by X.,,FLASHBANG,Invocation,3,None,5 seconds,20 ft,The caster launches of ball of Bright strobing light that makes everything in and on the other side of the Area of Effect hard to track. Ranged attacks made into the flashbanged area or at targets behind them have their dice sizes reduced by X.,,Blinded and startled by the flashbang, creatures in the Area of Effect reroll their Initiative on a d4 increasing this dice by X sizes and adding the current second and initiative modifier. Everyone that is affected is considered surprise with all associated penalties until their initiative comes up again.,,FATIGUE,Invocation,2,None,30 minutes,20 ft,Removes inhibitions, prompting everyone within area of effect to be honest. Those impacted by this may add Xd4 Situational Dice for each Flaw they use in a Conflict. This is in additional to the normal d4 Situational Die give for Flaws. Additionally, flaws heal X additional stress when they are acted on.,,Inflicts X levels of Fatigue on everyone within Area of Effect. ½ of the fatigue inflicted is recovered at the end of the Duration.,,FLOAT,Alteration,Earth,Water,2,None,10 seconds,35 ft,This causes that which sinks to float. Anything that’s within the Area of Effect that isn’t native to the element rises to the top. So, for Earth, a body or a sword, but not rocks, would come to the top. While in water rocks would float, but not fish.,,Creatures in the area of effect would begin to moonwalk jumping Difficulty is reduced by X categories but stopping movement proves to be a bigger issue. You may only reduce your movement speed by 1 category after X seconds.,,FORCE BIND SPIRIT,Animancy,Order,10,None,A year and a day,1 mile,This gives all living beings within the Area of Effect the ability to influence intelligent undead. Those affected may initiate a Conflict with intelligent undead at any time they’re within speaking range to get it to do something for them. Additionally, the living add Xd4s to their dice pool.,,By shear force of will, the animancer binds the escaped spirit to its body, forcing a horrible bastardization of life.,This affects one random dead body within the Area of Effect, regardless of how long its been dead for. This can bring them back as a skeleton or zombie based on how much meat is left.,The body continues to deteriorate over the Duration of the spell, subtracting X from the max Health of the Bound Spirit for every month the spell wears on.,This bound spirit is stunted in many ways, as its mind and body still rots away. The bound spirit starts at its full Health but is unable to heal wounds by natural, magic, or divine means. Additionally, they’re unable to heal Stress. They’re also unable to gain Experience or level and their Honor is permanently set at Dishonorable.,But it’s not all bad: the bound spirit is immune to the effects of Fatigue, though that prevents them from using the Grit Advanced Rule.,,GREASE SLICK,Chaos,Alteration,Conjuration,3,None,20 seconds,15 ft,All creatures in the Area of Effect become frictionless and can freely slip out grapples and bonds of any kind.,,Anyone in the Area of Effect is unable to change movement categories and, in fact, increases their speed by X ft / second upon entered it, though they don’t become fatigued.,Upon exiting the Area of Effect, they need to make an Easy Acrobatics check, with the Difficulty increased by X, to not fall flat on their face.,,HASTE,Alteration,Invocation,Order,2,None,10 seconds,40 ft,All creatures in the Area of Effect increase their movement speed by 2.5 * X ft.,,In the Area of Effect, all creature’s hearts begin pumping, gaining X Stress after every 5 seconds. Half of this Stress is retained at the end of the spell.,,HERMETIC DWEOMER,Alteration,Conjuration,Invocation,Order,5,None,20 seconds,5 ft,Equipment in the Area of Effect becomes surrounded bound by a repairing dweomer. This restores penalties inflicted because of equipment breaks or damage up to X permanently. Penalties above that are ignored for Duration but not decreased afterwards.,,Creatures in the Area of Effect become surrounded by X number unbreakable binding dweomers. Each dweomer also affects a random limb determined by a d4!,1: right hand,2: left hand,3: right leg,4: left leg,5+: random piece of equipment,No limb is effected twice. Creatures affected by this are unable to use that limb and can only pivot, if it’s a leg. Creatures affected by a chain on both the left and right side of their body can’t even do that.,Equipment that is bound is unusable but it does gain the Positive effect.,Magnitude is doubled against demons.,,HINDSIGHT,Mysticism,3,X * 5 silver pieces,10 minutes,25 ft,Through means of magical and spiritual insight, creatures in the Area of Effect can see events as they happened X days in the past.,,Creatures in the Area of Effect are filled with regret and nostalgia from past events. All creatures roll X social repercussion dice (see social chapter).,,HOOKGATE,Conjuration,8,A token to be destroyed,1 month,100 ft,The Hookgate is a spell developed by conjurers that harnesses the innate teleportation abilities of their Order of magic. The caster creates a summoning circle and links it to X objects, normally scraps of paper or small stones. When one of the objects is destroyed, the person who did so, and anyone holding any of the remaining objects are taken back to a random location within the Area of Effect. The other objects are also destroyed on recall.,,The sudden jerk while being summoned is not at all comfortable and so the summonees gain X Stress for every 15 miles they travel.,Any creature possessing the token may be summoned by a caster who finds the summoning circle. The summoned creature is bound like any other demon summon for X hours.,,ICARIAN FLIGHT,Air,Alteration,Chaos,Invocation,4,None,1 Minute,20 ft,This spell affects all living persons within the Area of Effect, giving the ability to fly, so to speak. While, more correctly, it gives the ability to jump really high. Under the effects of this spell, a person can travel X * 15 ft horizontally and X * 25 ft vertically, at base,,The higher they are, the harder they fall. This increases the effective fall distance within the Area of Effect by X * 10 ft. Should anyone start Bleeding Out because of a fall within the Area of Effect, they burst into flames and die instantly.,,ILLUMINATE,Invocation,Order,1,None,15 minutes,50 ft,This brightens the entire Area of Effect with a supernatural light by X illumination categories, casting away darkness and shadow.,,Moths. X * 100 moths (or equivalent) swarm to the area causing mild irritation. Difficulty of Perception and Listening Checks are increased by X categories. These moths seem to come out of nowhere,,IMPROBABLE STAIR,Chaos,Illusion,Mysticism,5,Something that can be seen as a stair.,1 min.,20 ft,Constructed by ancient wizards, the Improbable Stair was a means for the magi of ancient times to travel great distances instantly, however, since the deaths of the old masters, the secrets of how to use the properly Improbable Stair effectively has disappeared.,The Stair is accessed by seeing a stair in an unlikely place; a pile of crates or a sketch on a wall. It only has to suggest that a stair is there to work. The caster then steps on to the ‘stair’ and onto the Stair.,Every second on the Stair allows the caster to travel Xd12! yards if walking, Xd12! miles if jogging, or Xd12! days’ travel if running, rolled secretly by the GM.,Others can be brought along by gripping hands with the caster and with each other but should they let go while climbing, they’ll be lost somewhere in time and space. During travel, each person will need to make a Str vs d20! + X to maintain their grip.,Make implausible stairs ( a la Salvador Dali) become physical and interactable.,,Bending reality is never a sure thing. Cause another real feature to become false. For example, a window becomes a painting of a window, or a doorway leading to the next room instead leads to a closet. This effect is permanent.,,INDUCE INSANITY,Chaos,Mysticism,1,A pinch of chili powder,8 hours,50 ft,For the Duration of the spell, everyone within the Area of Effect may ignore their Flaws with no Stress penalty.,,For the Duration of the spell, manifest X number of new random temporary Flaws or suffer double the Stress penalty. This ignores the Positive Effect of this spell.,,IRONHIDE,Alteration,4,COMPONENTS,30 seconds,20 ft,This spell Increases DR by X,,This spell also decreases Def by X * 2,,KINETIC BURST,Chaos,Invocation,3,None,5 seconds,25 ft,All physical damage in the Area of Effect is increased by X / 2, rounded up.,,By releasing the potential energy in an item, the caster causes it to fly in a random direction. Everything under 5 * X pounds that is not secured in the Area of Effect is thrown in a random direction with a bang.,,LIMINAL PLATFORM,Air,Alteration,Conjuration,Order,1,COMPONENTS,6 hours,5 ft,This shapes magic into a spectral platform that allows the mage to dump his excess baggage on it. As long as it fits within the Area of Effect, the Liminal Platform can hold it, happily following it’s summoner around until it dematerializes.,The basic shape is a disc, but this can be changed to the caster’s desired shape to better hold things, such as a bowl or hand shape but can only be as large as the Area of Effect.,No matter the shape or size, the platform is translucent purple and is incapable of articulated action. So, a hand shaped platform can hold a weapon, but its unable to use it to fight: it simply sits there in the air, inert.,Liminal Platforms can be lowered to the ground or up to a max of the hip height of the caster (from the ground. You can’t raise it to your hip, get on it and then raise it again). They can carry X * 10 lbs.,,Increases the weight of things inside area of effect by X * lbs.,,LORE MYSTERIUM,Mysticism,2,The item in question,10 minutes,5 ft,By a powerful divination, everyone in the area of effect can gain insight into a person, place, or thing within the area of effect.,If it is a place, the caster must be there, if a thing, it must be held, and if a person, an organic portion of that person must be held (skin, hair, teeth, or so on).,The caster gains X number of questions that are answered in a factually correct way.,,For the spell’s Duration, everyone in the Area of Effect becomes linked, dividing the Stress and Wounds evenly between them.,,MAGIC CIRCLE,All,Order,2,COMPONENTS,5 min.,5 ft,This spell infuses the Middle Realm with the essence of one of the Orders of Magic. For the Duration, any spells of the selected Order is cast with an additional X Magnitude,,Any spells of the selected Order have their base cost increased by X.,,MARIONETTE,Invocation,1,An object or unconscious creature,5 Minutes,15 ft,By means of this spell, the caster can animate an object, causing it to move about without being touched.,The object in question only moves by hops and at points of articulation, so it doesn’t gain the ability to bend unnaturally.,In this way, a teapot or candlestick may hop about in a primitive form a locomotion, while a lock may only move it’s tumblers and an actual puppet may move as a person does.,This only can only be used on items up to X * 2 lbs.,,All objects in the Area of Effect have their energy sapped to animate the marionette. As such, inanimate objects have their weight increased by X * 5 lbs.,,MASK of ZAL,Illusion,3,None,1 hour,15 ft,Creatures within area of effect have their features changed randomly. By increasing the Magnitude of the spell you may impose control over X different aspects such as,,The glamour radiates a slight glow, decreasing the Difficulty of Skill Checks to spot the character by X and giving ranged attacks against the person a bonus of X to Attack.,,MESSAGE,Mysticism,1,A spoken message,1 Minute,50 ft,This communicates a message to up to X days’ travel away. This message is repeated once.,Additionally, it may be left behind in an area with a trigger condition that will play the message if it’s met.,This message is vocal by nature, allowing anyone within the Area of Effect of where the message ends up can hear it.,,The innate magic in words messes with the innate magic in the spell, causing words to become jumbled and intelligible. People within the Area of Effect need to make Trivial Language Checks to understand one another. This Language Check Difficulty is increased by X.,,MIMIC,Air,Illusion,1,None,15 Seconds,30 ft,This allows the caster to create a phantom noise anywhere within the Area of Effect. This can be any sound. Those listening make a Trivial Check + X to detect that something is wrong with the sound but only after they become suspicious of it.,,This spell throws off your volume control, forcing all creatures within the Area of Effect to speak or vocalize at full volume or take X Stress.,On top of this, it amplifies all noises in the Area of Effect, making Sneaking Checks X Difficulties harder.,,MYSTIC MARK,Illusion,Mysticism,1,None,1 Year and 1 Day,5 ft,This conjures a unique mark of identification that is put on either X objects and people in the Area of Effect.,The mark can be made invisible except under a certain condition noted at the time of casting, but is otherwise visible.,To find this object or person again, all the caster must to do to know the location of the target is close her eyes and concentrate for a minute. She then knows in what direction and how far away it is.,On top of this, any attempt to magically conceal the object or person from the caster doesn’t work.,,Those in the Area of Effect at the time of casting become linked together and for the Duration of the spell feel a subtle pull towards the caster and they towards them, no matter how far they roam. When they lie down to sleep, they feel that tension stronger,,OBSCURE,Mysticism,1,The thing being Obscured,1 Hour,5 ft,Hides object up to X lbs from magic sight and identification. It is simply invisible when a person scrys specifically for it or even scrys the area that it’s in.,On top of this, it physically shrouds an object, making them hard to focus on, lowering ranged Attack dice against them and Perception Check Difficulties made to see them by X sizes.,Even looking right at the person or object, the person needs to make a Trivial Perception check to register the object.,If an obscured person or object makes a hostile action against someone, it dispels the effect immediately.,Additionally, while those looking at the Obscured object or person doesn’t register the thing being there during the spell, they will be able to recall the person or object after the spell’s Duration.,,This spell also shrouds all from the sight of the Divines, preventing their prayers from reaching the heavens and keeping them from spending Favor.,When the spell releases, those affected suffer irritation of the Divines, lowering their Favor by X.,,PHASING,Chaos,Elemental,7,None,6 seconds,15 ft,All creatures in the Area of Effect may pass through the chosen element freely but they can only move up to a Crawl + X movement categories.,,The body is unable to maintain it’s form permanently shifting its physical attributes. All creatures in the area of effect lose 1 random physical attribute and gain .90 of another physical attribute permanently. This is determined by a d3,1: Str,2: Dex,3: Con,,PERFUME,Illusion,1,None,5 Minutes,30 ft,This spell can replicate any smell that the caster is familiar with.,The fragrance maybe magical but it does have some mental benefits: all those within the Area of Effect gain a + X * 2 to Con when dealing with airborne effects off all kinds. If the effect is simply applied without a Con check, its penalties are lowered by - X.,,Perception Checks to detect airborne attacks are X Difficulties harder and if a character is normally allowed a chance to defend against it (such as quickly cover their nose or refuse to breathe in from that point forward) they forfeit it.,,REMOVE ELEMENT,Elemental,4,The element to be worked,1 Day,15 ft,Over the course of this spell’s Duration, an element of the caster’s choosing within the Area of Effect begins to shift and move, creating pits, ramps, or vacuums of it within the Area of Effect. The caster can move up to X cubic feet of the element. This will travel at X feet per minute within the area of effect. The caster needs to concentrate X seconds for any additional change they wish to make to the elements.,While affected by this spell, elements are somewhat protected: water doesn’t evaporate or soak into the ground and fire doesn’t burn out. Also, if you indicate that you want the element in a ramp, for at least the duration of the spell, the element will take that shape: so fire will hold a rough ramp shape.,But as soon as the spell is over, it will act as normal: water held in a block will collapse and spread over the ground but earth will hold its shape but it will settle a bit.,Elements bonded to organic matter (air in the lungs, water in the blood, etc.) or worked in some way (metal in a weapon) are unaffected and can’t be targeted by this spell.,,This spells saps the energy from those originally within the Area of Effect, causing them to become as hungry as if they were moving the element themselves.,Those affected need to each an additional X days per day of duration of the Spell.,,REORIENT,Chaos,Illusion,Invocation,2,None,30 Seconds,40 ft,By means a subtle shift of energy or a trick of the mind, a caster can change the momentum of anyone within the spell. Everyone in the Area of Effect gains a +/- X to Defence, though everyone gains the same penalty or bonus. Additionally, the caster can change everyone 1 facing every second but everyone has to turn in the same direction.,,This shifting can also cause people to get a bit disoriented. Whenever someone enters or leaves the Area of Effect, they need to spot and get their bearings, delaying them X seconds.,,RICOCHET,Chaos,Invocation,2,None,5 seconds,10 ft,This gives everyone a + X to Defense against ranged weapons and redirects the missile to the next closest target.,,The new target gets a - X to Defence against incoming ranged missiles that missed the person selected in the Positive Effect. This overpowers any rules regarding where the missile goes because, you know, its magic.,Any spell cast in contact with Ricochet’s Area of Effect becomes a Chained spell originating from its Area of Effect. Both Ricochet’s caster and the other spell’s caster are viable targets for the new Chained spell.,,SCRY,Mysticism,1,None,1 Minute,5 ft,This causes all willing participants within the Area of Effect to be mentally transported away - allowing them to see a place up to X days’ travel away, but losing touch with their surroundings, unless they specifically stay mentally around their bodies. This also gives them magical sight, allowing them to see things as they are, detecting all illusions.,,This mutes your feelings and emotions, causing you to be mentally distance from what’s going on around you. All those within the Area of Effect reroll any Conflict dice that rolled above its maximum - X, minimum 1.,On top of this, it increases everyone’s Initiative Die by X sizes.,,SHATTERBIND,Alteration,Invocation,2,None,1 Minute,25 ft,A phantom binding wraps around an item within the Area of Effect, increasing its Breakage Threshold by X * 2.,,This binding is often tighter than it needs to be, crushing the item. The item now gives the carrier a - X / 4 to Attack and Defence, rounded up as it bends the item out of shape. Should that penalty becomes greater than - 10, the item simply shatters under the arcane grip.,This penalty is permanent.,,SHIFT WEATHER,Air,Water,1,Being outside,1 Day,30 ft,By controlling the winds and natural currents in the sky, the caster can change the weather within X day’s travel of the Area of Effect either making clear skies from a light drizzle or turning it into heavy rain.,This doesn’t allow them to conjure lightning storms from clear skies or drop a tornado where they will (or even control its path for that matter) unless the weather is already near that point (i.e., a huge windstorm for the tornado, or a heavy storm for the lightning).,They can also control the heat, changing it to either the lower or higher end for the area during that time of year.,,Messing with nature and the karmic forces of the world is not something done without repercussions, even if they’re subtle. All those in the Area of Effect are unable to gain any bonus from their Honor, rerolls, Situational Dice, or otherwise, for the Duration.,,SHOCK,Invocation,3,None,1 second,10 ft,The shock of having muscles tighten and release is weirdly relaxing, healing X Stress for everyone within the Area of Effect.,,Everyone in the Area of Effect take 1d2 points of damage and, more importantly, hitting the pain centers of the brain.,Those hit need to make a Trauma check vs twice their Con but increasing the size of the dice they’re checking with by X.,,SILENCE,Alteration,Illusion,2,None,2 Minutes,20 ft,Without sound, the other senses sharpen. Lower all Perception Checks within the Area of Effect by X Difficulties.,,This dampens all sound in the Area of Effect, increasing all Listening Check Difficulties by X.,,SLOW FALL,Alteration,Invocation,3,None,15 seconds,20 ft,This changes the kinetic energy of any falling person within the Area of Effect to potential energy, slowing their fall to a leisurely pace or 5 ft / second.,For the Duration of the spell, targets don’t take any fall damage. Additionally, if this spell was cast but doesn’t last the duration of the fall, the targets only take damage for the space they fall at full speed.,,Everyone’s depth perception becomes all wacky. Everyone within the Area of Effect lowers their ranged Attack attack dice by X sizes.,On top of this, they’re unable to place spells with a Full Area of Effect correctly, making it either X * 5 ft closer or further away from the cast.,And those affected have a hard time reading elevation. Things look X * 10 ft higher or lower than they actually are, causing those to stumble over smaller elevation changes, reducing their melee defense die size by 1 when applicable or really underestimating fall distance.,,SLOW METABOLISM,Animancy,4,None,1 Week,50 ft,This slows the natural processes of the body down, limiting the need for outside substances. For the Duration of the spell, a random target in the Area of Effect lowers the amount of food and drink they need to survive by X oz.,After the Duration is through, they don’t suddenly get hungry but will need to eat and drink at the normal rate again.,,While the body is slowed, so it healing. During the Duration of the Spell, all those within the Area of Effect increase their Days to Heal for each Wound by X per level.,,SMOKE SCREEN,Air,Invocation,1,None,10 Seconds,50 ft,The smoke screen clouds everything, making it hard to see. The Illumination level for the area is lowered by 1. Additionally, shooting into or through the screen gives the targets a + X to their ranged defense.,,The smoke also chokes the lungs. Anyone passing through it gains a +X to their Fatigue Score until they can wait X seconds to cough out enough of the black smoke to function again.,,STITCH FLESH,Animancy,3,A Wound,1 Second,50 ft,This forces the wounds of all people within the Area of Effect to stitch themselves together. While effective, this is an extremely painful process and is not kind to the body.,At base, this heals 1dX! (rounded to the nearest dice size) points of damage off a single wound of each target.,If the damage healed is greater than the target’s Wound Category, it triggers a Trauma check.,,This is not a pleasant process and inflicts Xd3! points of Stress and delaying the person an equal amount of seconds.,,SUMMONING,Conjuration,1,None,1 Minute,25 ft,This spell pulls a demon, a leftover of creation, from the aetherial void and binds it to the will of the summoner.,Demons are notorious shapeshifters and beguilers but through this spell, the summoner is able to force them (somewhat) into a single shape, though this is often a grotesque and twiced form. From there, the caster can order the demon to do their bidding.,There are different types and categories of demons, each with different abilities that can get a specific job. Some are brutish and stupid, while others are cunning and skillful. Some come linked with certain symbols, such as gateways or the birth of children, that give them powers related to them.,The basic spell conjures just a random demon type, which Circle value is X, or the lowest rung of the aetherial world that exists between the other realms.,The summoner can also weigh the odds in his favor when it comes to what categories of demon he summons. He can modify the dice roll by his level in either direction,A demon appears in a random location within the Area of Effect and rolls a d3 initiative dice.,Demons, even relatively dumb ones, are intelligent creatures and will struggle to overcome their bindings. Anytime you change a demon’s command, the demon rolls a d20 + its Circle (and the Circle of any other demons controlled by the caster) vs d20 + caster level. If it wins, the caster loses control and the demon goes rogue, first seeking out the caster to try and kill them as quickly as possible. If it can’t do that, it will do as much damage as possible to what’s around it and then try and kill itself.,The caster can try cast Summoning again to try and regain control. If the Circle you could have summoned is greater than the rogue demon’s Circle, you regain control... for now.,Demons cast in specialized Area of Effects (Sphere, Ray, Wall, etc.) are forced to stay in that area, following it wherever it goes if the Area of Effect can be moved. If it breaks its binding, it may, of course, run free.,Demons are wily creatures, always trying to find loopholes in their orders and while there is implicit bindings in the summon that prevent obvious loophole breaching, they’ll do the bare minimum of what’s asked of them.,This binding does make them more susceptible to suggestion as well and others may enter into a Conflict with the demon to get it to do or reveal things, on one condition: it can’t go against their summoner’s orders.,So, a demon ordered to patrol a hall can be forced to reveal information about its master or how many people are in each room, but it can’t be forced by others to stop patrolling (or even not attack the players, should it be told to kill anyone in the hall).,,This gives all demons within the Area of Effect a +X chance to break their bindings and go berserk,,STILL,Alteration,Invocation,Order,2,None,10 seconds,40 ft,All creatures in the Area of Effect calm down, reducing their Stress by X after every 10 seconds. This bonus is retained after the spell ends,,All creatures in the Area of Effect become lethargic, reducing their movement speed by 2.5 * X ft.,,TELEKINESIS,Invocation,3,None,5 Seconds,15 ft,This allows for remote manipulate things as if his hands were there, allowing him to push, pull, as well as do complex tasks from a safe distance.,Essentially, the caster can act as if he were present up to the range of the Area of Effect.,,All those within the Area of Effect lower their Carry Weight by X * 5.,,TONGUES,Mysticism,1,None,30 Minutes,10 ft,Through mystical means, this spell gives all within the Area of Effect the ability to read any script, even in a dead or unknown language but only if the caster is already literate in the first place and to speak another language, effectively giving them Rank X in that Language Advanced Skill.,Tongues also has an additional powers: the power to spot, read, and identify glyphs without setting them off.,,While under the effects of Tongues, people may find it hard to talk their native language. Lower the Rank of any Language Advanced Skills of those in the Area of Effect by X.,,TURN,Animancy,Conjuration,Order,3,None,30 Seconds,50 ft,By means of magical force, the caster is able to turn aside Undead and Demons, keeping them at a distance. Any Demons or Undead inside the Area of Effect flee at full speed until they’re out of it.,If this spell is Individual sized, those affected are invisible to any Demons and Undead,Demons and Undead that are trapped and unable to flee, begin to tear that their own flesh as the mind numbing pain floods their systems, dealing them Xd6! damage every 10 seconds.,,Everyone becomes repelled by everyone else in the area.,A Conflict starts with everyone in the Area of Effect. Anyone who wishes to move puts up two dice as normal with the person closest to him putting up two dice to raise or match. Any one may put in helper dice for either side.,Should he not be able to, the first person gets their way and everyone moves to remain equidistant from one another.,Those who wish to leave the Area of Effect must win a round in the Conflict to do so.,If this spell is used with an Individual Area of Effect, those hit need to remain equidistance from each other.,,TROMPE L’OEIL,Illusion,2,None,30 seconds,15 ft,This spell creates a 2D visual illusion up to the length of the Radius anywhere within the Area of Effect, that may be placed either on the ground or as a freestanding ‘wall’. This illusion hooks into the minds present but has no weight or substance to it, so anyone touching it immediately knows something is up (though touch doesn’t dismiss the illusion).,,X random people within the Area of Effect also become 2D, able to be seen from a certain angle but unable to interact with the 3D world but the 3D world may interact with them. They remain plastered on the nearest flat surface, bending freely around corners as if it’s nothing and slipping through cracks.,Those in 3D space can interact with them, dealing damage if they’re facing parallel to the 2D person.,Once reformed in the “real” world, the person becomes violently ill unless they pass a Con vs d20! + X check.,,WALL WALK,Alteration,3,None,30 seconds,10 ft,This endows all people in the Area of Effect with the ability to scale walls, moving up down or sideways freell, with their feet on the wall and their body out stretched as if standing. Other than this looking very odd, normal physics apply.,Their movement is limited: people moving on the walls can only move up to a Crawl + X movement categories.,,Held items become slippery and those holding them must roll a Dex vs Xd10! to keep them in their hands.,,WARD,Alteration,Invocation,Order,5,None,1 Minute,10 ft,Any one within the Area of Effect gains the ability to lower the Negative Effects of the next spell that hits them by X.,,For the Duration of the Ward, all Positive Effects from any spell are lowered by X.,,WEB,Alteration,Invocation,1,None,5 minutes,15 ft,For the duration of the spell, this covers the Area of Effect in a thin gossamer of sticky arcane webbing. Every 30 seconds a person spends moving through the area of effect they accumulate enough webbing on themselves that it creates a natural glue and adhesive. Checks made to grab, disarm, or otherwise remove from something from a webbed person’s being is made with a - X.,On top of this, the web provides exact grip so Climbing Checks are made X Difficulties easier and Carry Weight is increased by X.,,For the duration of the spell, this covers the Area of Effect in a thin gossamer of sticky arcane webbing that restricts movement down to Strolling speed.,Anyone wishing to move faster can make a Strength check vs d20! + X, with the X doubling at each movement category above a walk.,Hide Quick Nav,Show Quick Nav,Magic